The run_analysis.R script fulfills the following project requirements:

Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
Note: I loaded the required libraries, read data from tables and assigned column names in the tables before writing and editing scripts to respond to the project requirements.

PREPARE DATA
Step 1 - Check if archive exists.
Step 2 - Check if the required folder exists.
READ DATA AND ASSIGN COLUMN NAMES
Step 1 - Read and assign column names to table in the activity label file.
Step 2 - Read and assign column names to table in the feature file.
Step 3 - Read and assign column names to all tables under the Test file.
Step 4 - Read and assign column names to all tables under the Train file.
RESPONSE TO PROJECT REQUIREMENTS
1. REQUIREMENT 1 - Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set.

Step 1 - merge_X merges x_test and x_train using the rbind() function.
Step 2 - merge_Y merges y_test and y_train using the rbind() function.
Step 3 - merge_Subject merges subject_test and subject_train using the rbind() function.
Step 4 - merge_Data merges merge_X, merge_Y and merge_Subject using the cbind() function.
2. REQUIREMENT 2 - Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.

Subset Subject,ID and measurements related to the mean and standard deviation from merge_Data and store in First_Tidy_Data.

3. REQUIREMENT 3 - Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set

The measurements in the ID column from First_Tidy_Data is replaced with related activity from the second column of the Activity variable.

4. REQUIREMENT 4 - Appropriately label the data set with descriptive variable names.

The following columns were renamed:

ID to activity
Acc to Accelerometer
Gyro to Gyroscope
BodyBody to Body
Mag to Magnitude
Additionally,

All column name characters starting with f was replaced by Frequecy.
All column name characters starting with t was replaced by Time.
5. REQUIREMENT 5 - From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

A second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject was exported into Tidy Data.txt.

Footer
